Short-Term Emergency Loan - Financial Aid &amp; Scholarships Skip to main content UC Berkeley Financial Aid &amp; Scholarships Toggle navigation Main navigation Apply Now Apply for Aid Federal Updates Undergraduate Students: Federal Updates Graduate and Professional School Students: Federal Updates Parent Borrowers: Federal Updates Loan Proration and Enrollment Legacy provisions Loan repayment options FAFSA Completion Overview California Dream Act Application Changes Graduate Award Guide International Students How Aid Works Eligibility for Financial Aid at UC Berkeley Understanding Your Commitment Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities Campus Data Authorization Newly Admitted Students FAQs Estimate Your Financial Aid Student Budgets (Cost of Attendance) Meeting Nonresident Costs Financial Aid Checklist Verification Process Berkeley Financial Aid Forms Award Notification Appeals &#038; Special Circumstances Cost of Attendance Adjustment Economic Hardship Appeal Satisfactory Academic Progress Unusual Circumstance Appeals Financial Aid Payments and Refunds Sign Up for Direct Deposit Adjustments to Your Award Offer Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) FAQ Withdrawing from Classes or School Parent Guide Share Information With Parents and Others Publications Types of Aid Innovative Berkeley Aid Programs Berkeley Undergraduate Dream Act Aid Blue and Gold: UC Financial Aid Native American Opportunity Plan Grants Cal Grants California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant Program The Golden State Teacher Grant Program Chafee Grant Student Services Resources Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) The Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) and Children of Fallen Heroes Grant (CFH) Parent Grant UC Berkeley Grants Department Awards Scholarships Berkeley Undergraduate Scholarship Fiat Lux Scholarship Regents’ and Chancellor’s Scholarship Scholarship Opportunities for International Students Robinson International Scholars Program Middle Class Scholarship Outside Scholarships Scholarship Search Prizes and Honors Competitive Prize Contests Loans Federal Direct Loans PLUS Loan Application Health Professions Student Loan Berkeley Loan California Dream Loan Private Alternative Loan Short-Term Emergency Loan Summer Sessions Loan Loan History FAQs Work-Study Work-Study Information for On-Campus Employers Work-Study Information for Off-Campus Employers Work-Study Information for Students RASE Information for On-Campus Employers Other Financing Options Special Programs Newly Admitted Students Pathways Disabled Students Program Student Parents Study Abroad Summer Aid Veterans Education Benefits Center for Financial Wellness Financial Wellness Team Services – We are here to help! Group Workshops and Events Past Workshops 2026 Blue and Gold Pathway Conference Past Conferences Financial Literacy Hub Build a Budget Creating a Spending Plan Saving Money Managing Debt Repaying Your Loan Understanding Credit Identity Theft Basic Needs Center for Financial Wellness Impact Donate Secondary navigation Prospective Students Current Students Parent Hub Outreach Home / Types of Aid at Berkeley / Loans / Short-Term Emergency Loan Short-Term Emergency Loan The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office offers short-term emergency loans to graduate and undergraduate students. These interest-free loans are designed to help students meet unanticipated expenses directly related to the cost of education. Emergency Loans Are Available Direct Deposit/Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) is the easiest way to access refunds once available. Visit Direct Deposit Enrollment to sign up today! While the majority of emergency loans are eligible for automatic approval and issued rapidly, students should allow for 2–3 business days for emergency loans to be reviewed and approved. Some applications require additional review by a financial aid staff member. You may be required to provide additional information prior to notification of a decision, so please respond promptly to any requests related to your emergency loan application. Note: Submitting an application does not guarantee approval. Show All Hide All Important Information for Financial Aid Recipients add If you are receiving financial aid, please be aware that once your financial aid posts to your account, it may pay off the emergency loan before the due date. There is no guarantee that this will happen, however, and financial aid may not pay any of it, so please monitor your account activity. If you are anticipating a financial aid disbursement, and do not wish to have your emergency loan repaid through your financial aid, please consider waiting to submit your emergency loan application until your aid has disbursed. Dates of Availability add Fall 2026: August 17 at 8 A.M. through December 18, 2026 at 12 P.M. Spring 2027: January 12 at 8 A.M. through May 14, 2027 at 5 P.M. Summer 2027: May 24 at 8 A.M. through August 13, 2027 at 5 P.M. How to Apply add Apply in Cal Central under the section of My Finances, then Financial Resources and click on "Emergency Loan|Apply for an Emergency Loan." The linked step-by-step short-term emergency loan guide will take you to a pdf document that contains the guide. If you need more information about short-term emergency loans, please use the link Cal Student Central to get to the website. Types of Loans add Types of Loans Available During the Fall and Spring Semesters Co-payable Loan for Fees A co-payable Loan for Fees is available if you have enrolled for the semester, but have not yet obtained official registration status. The loan is intended to help make partial payment toward fall or spring semester UC Berkeley registration fees to cover at least 20% of the undergraduate California resident registration fees in fall or spring semester so you can be considered a register student. The loan will directly pay your fees and will be reflected in your Cal Central Student Account. Students requiring additional funding beyond the co-payable maximum (e.g. Non-Resident Supplemental Tuition) are encouraged to secure alternate sources of funding to meet the minimum amount due in advance of the payment deadlines. To be eligible: Students must be in a degree-seeking program; Be enrolled in a minimum of 1.0 unit and have a non-registration status; Do not have any active registration holds ; Do not have a past-due Co-Payable Loan for Fees and/or Living Expense Loan. If you are eligible, you may receive up to $1,795. Only one Co-payable Loan for Fees will be granted per student per semester. Co-payable Loans for Fees are not available for UC Berkeley Summer Sessions, UC Berkeley Extension fees, UC Education Abroad programs, enrollment at other UC campuses, or enrollment at other educational institutions. To be considered officially registered at UC Berkeley, you must meet all criteria: You must be enrolled in at least one course; You must have at least 20% of your registration fees paid; You must have no holds against your registration (including any holds for a past due balance). Living Expense Loans Living Expense Loans are available to UC Berkeley registered students who have demonstrated financial need for funds essential to their attendance. To be eligible: Students must be in a degree-seeking program; Be officially registered at UC Berkeley for the current semester; Do not have any active registration holds ; Do not have a past-due Living Expense Loan and/or Co-payable Loan for Fees. If you are eligible, you may receive up to $3,000. The Financial Aid and Scholarship Office may, at its discretion and on a by-case basis, approve more than one loan per semester per student and/or approve a loan in excess of $3,000. Such approval requires authorization from an appropriate representative of the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office, or a delegated official, and eligible students may be required to sign a revised promissory note. Students may receive these short-term emergency funds via paper check at Cal Student Central (see note below) or in their personal bank account via Direct Deposit. Note: If your Direct Deposit is not active, you can sign up for Direct Deposit . If you choose to receive your loan via Check , you will receive an email communication with specific instructions letting you know when your check is available for pick up at Cal Student Central in Sproul Hall 120. Please wait until you receive this communication before taking any action to pick up your check. Loan disbursements will not split across multiple payments methods. Type of Loan Available During Summer Sessions Living Expense Loan A Living Expense Loan is available during Summer Sessions to eligible registered students. The maximum loan amount is $3,000. To be eligible: Students must be in a degree-seeking program; Be registered at UC Berkeley for the current Summer Sessions; Be a continuing student who has completed the previous spring semester; Do not have any active registration holds ; Do not have a past-due Living Expense Loan and/or Co-payable Loan for Fees. Eligibility Terms add The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office reserves the right to determine whether to make a loan available after assessing eligibility and other factors that may affect the student’s registration or ability to repay the loan. This determination of eligibility is subject to verification of the information provided in the application and the university’s records. The maximum loan amount is established each term by the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office and is subject to change without notice. Loan Terms add Loans are interest-free. The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office assesses a $20 administrative fee for each short-term emergency loan. This fee is automatically added to the loan balance and is repaid when the loan is repaid. The amount of the administrative fee is established each semester by the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office and is subject to change without notice. This fee will be waived for the 2026-27 academic year. The maximum loan amount is established each term by the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office and is subject to change without notice. Repayment Terms and Payment Options add Repayment Terms and Disclosures The principal loan amount and administrative fee are due approximately 60 days from the date of the application of the loan. Financial aid awards, loans, or other credits to your account may result in the loan balance being paid before the due date. Funds eligible to pay the loan balance will not be issued as a refund of overpayment until the loan balance is paid-in-full. Borrowers are responsible for repayment whether or not they receive a bill. Payment Options Borrowers have several options for making payments to their account—either electronically or by check. Contact Information add If you need additional assistance, please reach out to Cal Student Central (CSC). Cal Student Central Sproul Hall 120 (510) 664-9181 Apply Now Apply for Aid Federal Updates Undergraduate Students: Federal Updates Graduate and Professional School Students: Federal Updates Parent Borrowers: Federal Updates Loan Proration and Enrollment Legacy provisions Loan repayment options FAFSA Completion Overview California Dream Act Application Changes Graduate Award Guide How Aid Works Eligibility for Financial Aid at UC Berkeley Understanding Your Commitment Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities Newly Admitted Students FAQs Estimate Your Financial Aid Student Budgets (Cost of Attendance) Meeting Nonresident Costs Financial Aid Checklist Verification Process Berkeley Financial Aid Forms Award Notification Appeals &#038; Special Circumstances Cost of Attendance Adjustment Economic Hardship Appeal Satisfactory Academic Progress Financial Aid Payments and Refunds Sign Up for Direct Deposit Adjustments to Your Award Offer Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) FAQ Withdrawing from Classes or School Parent Guide Share Information With Parents and Others Types of Aid at Berkeley Innovative Berkeley Aid Programs Berkeley Undergraduate Dream Act Aid Blue and Gold: UC Financial Aid Grants Cal Grants California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant Program The Golden State Teacher Grant Program Chafee Grant Student Services Resources Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) The Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant and Children of Fallen Heroes Grant Parent Grant UC Berkeley Grants Department Awards Scholarships Scholarship Search Fiat Lux Scholarship Regents’ and Chancellor’s Scholarship Berkeley Undergraduate Scholarship Middle Class Scholarship Prizes and Honors Competitive Prize Contests Loans Federal Direct Loans PLUS Loan Application Health Professions Student Loan Berkeley Loan California Dream Loan Private Alternative Loan Short-Term Emergency Loan Summer Sessions Loan Loan History FAQs Work-Study Work-Study Information for On-Campus Employers Work-Study Information for Off-Campus Employers Work-Study Information for Students RASE Information for On-Campus Employers Special Programs Newly Admitted Students Pathways Disabled Students Program Student Parents Study Abroad Summer Aid Veterans Education Benefits Center for Financial Wellness Financial Wellness Team Services – We are here to help! Group Workshops and Events Past Workshops 2026 Blue and Gold Pathway Conference Past Conferences Financial Literacy Hub Build a Budget Creating a Spending Plan Saving Money Managing Debt Repaying Your Loan Understanding Credit Identity Theft Basic Needs Center for Financial Wellness Impact GIVE: Change a Life COVID-19 Service &#038; Support Updates COVID-19 Relief Funding Notifications COVID-19 Emergency Financial Aid Grants Contact Us About Us Prospective Students Current Students Parent Financial Support Hub Campus Partner Connect Glossary Learn: Tools, Tips, and Resources! Publications Financial Aid in Your Virtual Spaces Search Student Budgets Archive Native American Opportunity Plan Unusual Circumstance Appeals 2025 POWER IN COMMUNITY DAY MCS Updates Booking Received Financial Aid Resource Links FASO Newsletter Tracker Outreach Accordion Test Support for California Fires FASO Newsletter Archive Booking Form COVID SUPPORT UPDATES ARCHIVE CalCentral CalCentral provides easy access to your financial aid and billing records. Every student at UC Berkeley has a CalCentral account. MY FINANCES ON CALCENTRAL CENTER FOR FINANCIAL WELLNESS Sign up for free one-on-one coaching, workshops, or online tools that will help you achieve long-term financial security and prosperity. Center for Financial Wellness FINANCIAL AID AT A GLANCE What you don&#8217;t know about undergraduate financial aid at Berkeley will surprise you. GET THE FACTS instagram youtube Mailing Address: ​Financial Aid and Scholarships Office UC Berkeley 201 Sproul Hall #1960 Berkeley, CA 94720-1960 Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities Campus Data Authorization About Us Contact Us Make a Gift (Berkeley Undergraduate Student Fund) Privacy Policy Accessibility Nondiscrimination Copyright &copy; 2026 UC Regents; all rights reserved