Food Pantry | Basic Needs Skip to main content | Division of Equity and Inclusion Toggle navigation Basic Needs Search Terms Submit Search Home About Us About Us Our Story Contact Us Get Support Get Support Events, Programs, &amp; Drop-Ins Calendar Student Support Teams Services Food Housing Finances Community Resources Community Food Resources Community Housing Resources Medi-Cal Information Get Involved BNC Information for Staff Collaborate with Us Volunteer &amp; Job Opportunities Donate Secondary navigation Español 中文 Basic Needs Food Pantry Food Pantry The Food Pantry is a food program that is designed by students to meet the short-term, immediate food needs of UC Berkeley students . This includes undergraduate and graduate, undocumented, international, visiting scholars, student researchers, and postdocs. Important Reminders: We are currently located in b North, lower level of MLK Jr. Student Union This resource is only for UC Berkeley Students (includes Undergrad, Grad, and Visiting Scholar/Postdoc) You can visit up to once per week . You need your Cal ID or Cal ID Number. Not a student? Check out these community food resources and this webpage for the staff pantry . Food Pantry Hours (Fall 2026) Monday, August 31 st - Thursday, December 10 th Monday: 1 - 2:30 pm | 3 - 4:30 pm Tuesday: 1- 2:30 pm | 3 - 4:30 pm | 5 - 6:30 pm Wednesday: 1- 2:30 pm | 3 - 4:30 pm Thursday: 11 - 12:30 pm | 1 - 2:30 pm | 3- 4:30 pm Friday: 12 - 1:30 pm | 2 - 3:30 pm We will be Closed: Monday, September 7 th Monday, October 12 th Wednesday, November 11 th Entire Week of Thanksgiving: November 23 rd -27 th Please note that there is a new virtual line link and if it is your first time, fill out the new Student Profile Form before you arrive! Read more below or go straight to the New Student Profile Form . How to Access the Food Pantry Step 1: Fill Out New Student Profile Form Prior to Your First Visit Before you sign up on the virtual line to visit the Food Pantry, please fill out the Basic Needs Center’s New Student Profile Form . This is not replacing the virtual line, but is in addition to it, in an effort to move to a more secure platform, better support students, as well as be able to reach out in the rare case of a food recall. Starting Fall 2025, even if you have visited previously, please fill out the New Student Profile form. This form only has to be filled out once and should take no more than 2 minutes to complete. Step 2: Sign Up on Our Virtual Line The Food Pantry virtual line opens during our Pantry open hours, listed above. You can sign-up from anywhere on campus. If you don’t have a phone number, please come in-person and sign-up at the Pantry check-in table at bNorth entrance, first floor of MLK Student Union. The line will close during daily restock times and if it fills up. Step 3: Check-In Upstairs When it is Your Turn Reminder to bring a bag and your CalID. You will be able to check the status page and will also receive a text message confirming you are in line. Please wait until you receive the text saying you are at the front of the line before coming to check-in. You have up to 15 minutes once you receive the front of the line text to check-in. If you have technical difficulties joining the line or do not receive a text, please come to the check-in table. Step 4: Visit the Pantry After scanning your Cal ID or inputting you Student ID # at check-in, you can go downstairs and visit the Food Pantry. After choosing your items, you’ll proceed to the checkout station and we’ll scan your items to keep our inventory up to date. Everything is free, but to ensure we have enough for everyone, please only take what you need. Step 5: Share Your Feedback At the end of your visit, you’ll receive a text asking for any feedback you have about whether the Food Pantry met your immediate food needs. September 2026 update: our feedback form is on pause as we update our form. For comments in the meantime, please email foodpantry@berkeley.edu . Food Pantry Check-In on 1st Floor of MLK Student Union Student Virtual Line The virtual line opens at the start of Food Pantry hours Food Pantry FAQs Community Food Resources What drew me to the food pantry was the people and the warm, welcoming atmosphere. The Basic Needs Food Pantry is a place where students can find support without fear of judgment. Maria, Food Pantry Lead, Class of 2025 Follow us: LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Home Contact Us Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright © 2026 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top