Financial Aid | Disabled Students&#039; Program Skip to main content | Division of Equity &amp; Inclusion Toggle navigation Disabled Students' Program Search Terms Submit Search Students Resources to assist new, as well as returning, DSP students: - Eligibility, Application, LOA Process - Documentation - Responsibilities - Drop In Hours Overview New Students Policies FAQ for Students Student Resources Faculty Resources for understanding the DSP student accommodation process: - Letters of Accommodation (LOAs) - Accessible bCourses Content - Proctoring - Curriculum Recommendations Overview Resources for Faculty Proctoring FAQ for Faculty Auxiliary Service Units DSP offers a wide range of services for students with disabilities. These services are individually designed based on an individualized assessment coordinated by your DSP Specialist. Each Auxiliary Services unit is dedicated to assisting you in implementing specific accommodations based on your disability documentation. Overview Note-Taking Services Alternative Media Communication Services Proctoring Other Services Support Services Overview Disability Cultural Community (DCC) Center TRiO DSP SSS Autism Spectrum Services Career Services Other Support Services Campus Resources Additional Resources: - Campus - Academic - Community Overview Disability Access and Compliance Resources for Parents, Family and Allies Campus Partners Community Partners Give to DSP About General information about the Disabled Students' Program Overview DSP Team DSP History Annual Report and Data Secondary navigation Faculty Portal Student Portal Home Financial Aid Financial Aid On-Campus Resources Financial Aid Office Cal Student Central 120 Sproul Hall Phone: (510) 664-9181 Fax: (510) 643-2015 Mailing Address: Financial Aid and Scholarships Office UC Berkeley 201 Sproul Hall #1960 Berkeley, CA 94720-1960 Financial Aid drop-in hours The Financial Aid Office offers drop-in office hours for DSP. Contact your specialist for more information. Understanding Student Billing (CARS) Statements The Student Billing Services website offers detailed instructions and videos on understanding CARS billing (e-bill, payments, etc.). Loan Forgiveness &amp; Income-based Repayment Plan After graduation, you may qualify for Public Service Loan Forgiveness or Income based repayment. We have made available several Fact Sheets from Financial Literacy 101 to assist students with understanding student loans and loan forgiveness. Reduced Course Load and Semesters of Financial Aid Eligibility Students with disabilities receiving financial aid may take a reduced course load of 6.0 - 11.0 units. Discuss with your specialist if you have a need for a reduced course load. The Financial Aid Office may extend semesters of financial aid eligibility for students on a reduced course load. Note that if you receive a Cal Grant or Pell Grant , a reduced course load may affect the amount of financial aid that you receive. If you need to withdraw, please note that if you withdraw and your last day of attendance is after the 60% point of the semester, you will keep all of your financial aid. If you withdraw before 60% of the semester has passed you will be expected to pay back at least part of your financial aid. For more information and deadline date, go to "Withdrawing and Your Financial Aid" Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) In order to maintain satisfactory academic progress, you must complete the number of approved units you are enrolled in for any semester. Also, if you have submitted a Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal, you must complete all units specified in the SAP agreement. Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) Services for low-income first-generation students. Depending on the need, EOP may offer nominal grants for emergency use. Social Services Social Services provides confidential services and counseling to help students with managing problems that can emerge from illness or disability such as financial, academic, legal, family concerns, and more. ASUC VITA: Volunteer Income Tax Assistance ASUC Legal Clinic 's trained and IRS-certified volunteers will help with simple income tax preparations, and referrals to more complex preparation services. Grants and Scholarships Scholarship Connection Scholarship Connection is a clearinghouse for information on scholarships that are funded by sources outside the University. 5 Durant Hall Alicia Hayes (510) 643-6929 DSP Student Technology Grant Students with disabilities who have filled out a FAFSA may apply for the DSP Student Technology Grant . The intent of the grant is to recognize the unique needs of students with disabilities for assistive technology or specialized equipment that either improves access to instructional material or promotes physical independence. The DSP Student Technology Grant is not an emergency source of funding and can only be used toward assistive technology. DSP/TRIO students receive priority for the grant. Benefits for people with disabilities Social Security Disability Insurance Social Security Disability Insurance pays benefits to you and certain members of your family if you are "insured", meaning that you worked long enough and paid social security taxes. Supplemental Security Income pays benefits based on financial need. Disability Benefits 101 Disability Benefits 101 gives you tools and information on health coverage, benefits, and employment. You can plan ahead and learn how school, work, and benefits go together. Contact Employment Notetaker Portal Staff Portal Disabled Students’ Program 100 Creekside Center, #4250 Berkeley, CA 94720-4250 Phone: (510) 642-0518 TTY Relay Service for Deaf and Hard of Hearing Only : (510) 642-6376 Fax: (510) 643-9686 The Disabled Students' Program prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities, and prohibits discrimination against all individuals based on their race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or national origin. Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright © 2026 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top